## Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Project Description

In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. You'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.

## Project Datasets

You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

- Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
- Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

## Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

- song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
- song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json


## Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json


## Database schema

There are two staging tables with copy the JSON file.

- Staging Table

- staging_songs 
info about songs and artists

- staging_events  
actions done by users (which song are listening, etc.. )

With the suggestion of using a star schema to optimized queries on song play futher analysis. This includes the following tables.

- Fact Table

- songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent


- Dimension Tables

- users - users in the app

user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

- songs - songs in music database

song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

- artists - artists in music database

artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units

start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


## Data Warehouse Configurations and Setup

First step should be to create a new IAM user in your AWS account and give it AdministratorAccess and Attach policies.
Then set directly on AWS enviroment EC2, S3, IAM, and Redshift. So create an IAM Role that makes Redshift able to access S3 bucket
Therefore create a RedShift Cluster and get the Host information to fill on the config file, where should have the other parameters seted.


## ETL Process

Create tables with the create_tables.py to store data 
Load that data ro the Redshift Cluster
Insert data on the final tables.

## Project Files

- dhw.cfg - Configuration file. Used to storage the paramater about Redshift, IAM and S3 that are going to be used on the .py files.
- sql_queries.py - This file are responsible for the tables using SQL statement in String formats, partitioned by CREATE, DROP, COPY and INSERT statement.
- create_tables.py - This script will drop and re-create new tables.
- etl.py - This script responsible for the queries that extract JSON data from the S3 bucket and ingest them to Redshift.


## How to execute the project

1. Set the parameter on dhw.cfg
2. Configure SLQ statements on sql_queries.py
3. Run create_tables.py
4. Run etl.py



